ColorBrewer.jl A small library for generating color brewer color palettes. For more information on color brewer, see http://colorbrewer2.org/ . About The color brewer palette collection was originally designed for maps, but is also useful for quickly generating nice colors for any kind of plot. Setup This package is now registered. Add it with Pkg . add ( " ColorBrewer " ); You can also add it with Pkg . clone ( " git://github.com/timothyrenner/ColorBrewer.jl.git " ); Usage The module contains one function, palette , which takes a scheme name and an integer for the number of colors in the palette. It returns an array of RGB values, which are defined in the ColorTypes.jl package. For example, to obtain a five color sequential green scheme, call using ColorBrewer greens = palette ( " Greens " , 5 ); Pretty simple stuff. It can drop right into Gadfly plots. using Gadfly p = plot ([x -> sin (n * x) for n in 1 : 3 ], 0 , 25 , Scale . color_discrete_manual (greens[ 3 : 5 ] . .. )) If the palette function is passed an invalid scheme or number of colors, it throws an ArgumentError . The schemes are broken up into three categories based on the type of data you want to show: sequential, diverging, and qualitative. All sequential color schemes can have between 3 and 9 colors. The available sequential color schemes are: Name Example Blues Oranges Greens Reds Purples Greys OrRd GnBu PuBu PuRd BuPu BuGn YlGn RdPu YlOrBr YlGnBu YlOrRd PuBuGn All diverging color schemes can have between 3 and 11 colors. The available diverging color schemes are: Name Example Spectral RdYlGn RdBu PiYG PRGn RdYlBu BrBG RdGy PuOr The number of colors a qualitative color scheme can have depends on the scheme. The available qualitative color schemes are: Name Example Set1 Set2 Set3 Accent Dark2 Paired Pastel1 Pastel2 The Paired and Set3 schemes can have between 3 and 12 colors. The Pastel1 and Set1 schemes can have between 3 and 9 colors. The Set2 , Accent , Dark2 , and Pastel2 schemes can have between 3 and 8 colors. Thanks Huge thanks to ikirill for providing the color scheme previews!