Franklin: a Static Site Generator in Julia. Franklin is a simple static site generator (SSG) oriented towards technical blogging (code, maths, ...) and light, fast-loading pages. The base syntax is plain markdown with a few extensions such as the ability to define and use LaTeX-like commands in or outside of maths environments and the possibility to evaluate code blocks on the fly. Franklin now has a channel #franklin on the Julia slack. Docs Go to Franklin's main website . Some examples of websites using Franklin the main website is written in Franklin, source , @cormullion's website , the author of Luxor.jl , MLJ's tutorial website which shows how Franklin can interact nicely with Literate.jl see also all julia blog posts rendered with Franklin thanks to massive help from @cormullion ; see also the source repo there's a project to get the official julialang website to use Franklin, here's the POC Tom Kwong's website author of Hands-on Design Patterns and Best Practices with Julia . my website . Key features Use standard markdown with the possibility to use LaTeX-style commands, Simple way to introduce div blocks allowing easy styling on a page (e.g. "Theorem" boxes etc.), Can execute and show the output of Julia code blocks, Simple optimisation step to accelerate webpage loading speed: compression of HTML and CSS of the generated pages, optional pre-rendering of KaTeX and highlighted code blocks to remove javascript dependency, Easy HTML templating to define or adapt a given layout. See the docs for more information and examples. Getting started With Julia ≥ 1.1: pkg > add Franklin you can then get started with julia > using Franklin julia > newsite ( " MyNewSite " ) ✔ Website folder generated at " MyNewSite " (now the current directory). → Use serve () from Franklin to see the website in your browser. julia > serve () → Initial full pass ... → Starting the server ... ✔ LiveServer listening on http : // localhost : 8000 / ... (use CTRL + C to shut down) Modify the files in MyNewSite/src and see the changes being live-rendered in your browser. Head to the docs for more information. Associated repositories LiveServer.jl a package coded with Jonas Asprion to render and watch the content of a local folder in the browser. FranklinTemplates.jl the repositories where Franklin themes/templates are developed. franklindocs the repository for Franklin's website. Licenses Core : Franklin, FranklinTemplates and LiveServer are all MIT licensed. External : KaTeX is MIT licensed , Node's is essentially MIT licensed , css-html-js-minify is LGPL licensed , highlight.js is BSD licensed .