KrylovKit.jl A Julia package collecting a number of Krylov-based algorithms for linear problems, singular value and eigenvalue problems and the application of functions of linear maps or operators to vectors. Documentation Build Status Release notes for the latest version v0.3 a new method expintegrator that generalizes exponentiate (and the latter is now a special case of the former), i.e. it computes a linear combination of the so-called ϕⱼ functions that corresponds to the solution of a linear inhomogeneous ODE. stricter handling of keyword arguments; unknown keyword arguments are no longer ignored but give an error. v0.2 a new method geneigsolve for generalized eigenvalue problems A x = λ B x , with a single implementation for symmetric/hermitian problems with positive definite B , based on the Golub-Ye inverse free algorithm. a verbosity keyword that takes integer values to control the amount of information that is printed while the algorithm is running. v0.1: first official release Overview KrylovKit.jl accepts general functions or callable objects as linear maps, and general Julia objects with vector like behavior (as defined in the docs) as vectors. The high level interface of KrylovKit is provided by the following functions: linsolve : solve linear systems eigsolve : find a few eigenvalues and corresponding eigenvectors geneigsolve : find a few generalized eigenvalues and corresponding vectors svdsolve : find a few singular values and corresponding left and right singular vectors exponentiate : apply the exponential of a linear map to a vector expintegrator : exponential integrator for a linear non-homogeneous ODE, computes a linear combination of the so-called ϕⱼ functions which generalize ϕ₀(z) = exp(z) . Installation KrylovKit.jl can be installed with the Julia package manager. From the Julia REPL, type ] to enter the Pkg REPL mode and run: pkg> add KrylovKit Or, equivalently, via the Pkg API: julia > import Pkg; Pkg . add ( " KrylovKit.jl " ) Documentation STABLE - documentation of the most recently tagged version. DEVEL - documentation of the in-development version. Project Status The package is tested against Julia 0.7 , 1.0 , 1.1 and the nightly builds of the Julia master branch on Linux, macOS, and Windows, 32- and 64-bit architecture and with 1 and 4 threads. Questions and Contributions Contributions are very welcome, as are feature requests and suggestions. Please open an issue if you encounter any problems.