Weave Weave is a scientific report generator/literate programming tool for Julia. It resembles Pweave , Knitr, rmarkdown and Sweave. You can write your documentation and code in input document using Noweb, Markdown, Script syntax and use weave function to execute to document to capture results and figures. Current features Publish markdown directly to html and pdf using Julia or Pandoc markdown. Markdown, script of Noweb syntax for input documents. Execute code as terminal or "script" chunks. Capture Plots.jl or Gadfly.jl figures Supports LaTex, Pandoc, Github markdown, MultiMarkdown, Asciidoc and reStructuredText output Simple caching of results Convert to and from IJulia notebooks Citing Weave: Pastell, Matti. 2017. Weave.jl: Scientific Reports Using Julia. The Journal of Open Source Software. http://dx.doi.org/10.21105/joss.00204 Installation You can install the latest release using Julia package manager: using Pkg Pkg . add ( " Weave " ) Usage Run from julia using Plots.jl for plots: # First add depencies for the example using Pkg; Pkg . add .([ " Plots " , " DSP " ]) # Use Weave using Weave weave ( joinpath ( dirname ( pathof (Weave)), " ../examples " , " FIR_design.jmd " ), out_path = :pwd ) If you have LaTeX installed you can also weave directly to pdf. weave ( joinpath ( dirname ( pathof (Weave)), " ../examples " , " FIR_design.jmd " ), out_path = :pwd , doctype = " md2pdf " ) Documentation Documenter.jl with MKDocs generated documentation: Editor support Install language-weave to add Weave support to Juno. It allows running code from Weave documents with usual keybindings and allows preview of html and pdf output. The Julia extension for Visual Studio Code adds Weave support to Visual Studio Code . Contributing I will probably add new features to Weave when I need them myself or if they are requested and not too difficult to implement. You can contribute by opening issues on Github or implementing things yourself and making a pull request. I'd also appreciate example documents written using Weave to add to examples. Contributors You can see the list of contributors on Github: https://github.com/mpastell/Weave.jl/graphs/contributors . Thanks for the important additions, fixes and comments. Example projects using Weave DiffEqTutorials.jl uses Weave to output tutorials ( .jmd documents) to html, pdf and Jupyter notebooks. TuringTutorials uses Weave to convert notebooks to html.